---
title: Jordan Peterson: set your house in order
layout: post
---

[The Jordan Peterson podcast: S2 E33 set your house in order](
https://www.jordanbpeterson.com/podcast/s2-33-set-your-house-in-order/)

When I first heard of Jordan Peterson I regarded him somewhat suspiciously.
Based on the way he was talked about, I figured that he was some kind of
alt-right neo-nazi dog whistle -- which is an odd stance for me to take given
my disdain for leftism. Nonetheless that's what I implicitly expected of him.

Nothing could be further from the truth. Peterson constantly impresses me with
his even, objective view of the world which is astounding partially because
it's so deep. I have yet to be disappointed with one of his lectures.

I caught this lecture on an 11 hour drive from New York to Ohio - I think I was
somewhere in Pennsylvania at the time.

If you're new to him, I wouldn't necessarily recommend starting with this
lecture since it's one of the darkest he's done. He discusses where evil comes
from in human nature and uses, among other things, the story of Adam & Eve and
Cain & Abel as proxies. One of the things that I love about Peterson is that
though he doesn't claim himself to be a Christian, he uses Biblical stories to
great effect and manages to make them very engaging - and I'm saying this as
someone who is staunchly agnostic.

Listening to Peterson's stuff always picks me up, takes me to the well for
motivation. Along with Taleb and Csikszentmihalyi (the
[Flow](https://www.amazon.com/Flow-Psychology-Experience-Perennial-Classics/dp/0061339202)
guy) he's one of the only modern philosophers I can think of who are worth
listening to.
